					The Definition of 100 Networking Terms


3G- Third generation of mobile telecommunications technology, typically offering higher data rates than earlier generations.

4G- Fourth generation of mobile telecommunications technology, typically offering even higher data rates than 3G.

5G- Fifth generation of mobile telecommunications technology, offering faster speeds and higher bandwidth than 4G.

Access Control List (ACL)- A set of rules that controls traffic in and out of a network or individual device.

Address- Unique identifier for a specific computer or device on a network.

Address Resolution Protocol (ARP)- Protocol for mapping an Internet Protocol address (IP address) to a physical machine address that is recognized in the local network.

Administrator- User with full control over a network or individual computer.

Address Resolution Protocol (ARP)- Protocol used to map an IP address to a physical address, such as a MAC address.

Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)- Symmetric key algorithm used to encrypt and decrypt data.

Amazon Web Services (AWS)- Comprehensive, evolving cloud computing platform provided by Amazon.

Apache- Popular open-source web server.

Application Programming Interface (API)- Specific method prescribed by a computer software program for requesting services from another software program.

Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM)- Cell-based switching technique for voice, video, and computer data.

Auto Scaling- Cloud computing feature that provides the ability to scale an application up or down automatically according to conditions set by the user.

Bandwidth- Amount of data that can be transferred over a given period of time.

Bit- Smallest unit of data in a computer.

Bridge- Device that connects two or more networks together.

Broadcast- Message sent to all devices on a network.

Client- Device or software application that requests services from a server.

Cloud- Network of remote servers hosted on the internet and used to store, manage, and process data.

Cloud Computing- Ability to access applications and data over the internet.

Cluster- Group of computers that work together to provide high availability.

Code- Set of instructions that a computer can understand.

Collision- Condition that occurs when two devices on a network attempt to transmit at the same time.

Compiler- Program that converts code into a form that a computer can execute.

Crossover Cable- Type of Ethernet cable used to connect two devices of the same type, such as two computers.

Data Center- Facility used to house networking equipment and other computer systems.

Data Encryption Standard (DES)- Standard for encrypting data that was developed by the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).

Data Link Layer- Second layer of the OSI model, which is responsible for error-free transfer of data frames from one node to another.

Data Mining- Process of extracting patterns from large data sets.

Database- Collection of data that can be accessed by computers.

Database Server- Server that stores and manages data in a database.

Dedicated Line- The physical connection between two devices that is not shared with any other devices.

Denial of Service (DoS)- Attack that prevents legitimate users from accessing a network or individual device.

Developer- Programmer who writes code to create software applications.

Dial-up- Type of internet connection that uses a telephone line.

Domain Name System (DNS)- System that converts human-readable domain names into numerical IP addresses.

Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP)- Protocol for automatically assigning IP addresses to devices on a network.

Encryption- Process of converting data into a form that cannot be read by unauthorized individuals.

Ethernet- Popular type of physical network that uses twisted pair or fiber optic cables to connect devices.

Extranet- Private network that uses the public internet to securely connect two or more locations.

File Transfer Protocol (FTP)- Protocol used to transfer files from one computer to another over a network.

Firewall- Device or software application that filters traffic between two networks or between a device and a network.

Firmware- Software that is stored in a computer's read-only memory (ROM).

Gateway- Device that connects two networks with different protocols or two devices with different interfaces.

Gigabit Ethernet- Ethernet standard with a data transfer rate of one gigabit per second.

Hub- Device that connects multiple network devices together.

Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)- Protocol used to transfer web pages and other files on the World Wide Web.

Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS)- Secure version of HTTP that is used to transfer sensitive data, such as credit card numbers.

IGMP (Internet Group Management Protocol)- Protocol used to manage multicast group membership.

Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)- Form of cloud computing that delivers computer infrastructure on an as-a-service basis.

Intrusion Detection System (IDS)- System that monitors network traffic for signs of malicious activity.

Input- Data or instructions that are entered into a computer.

JavaScript- Programming language that is used to create interactive web pages.

Jitter- Variation in delay between data packets sent across a network.

LAN (Local Area Network)- Network that is confined to a relatively small area.

Leased Line- Point-to-point link between two devices in which each device has a dedicated connection to the other.

Internet Protocol version 4 (IPv4)- Previous version of the Internet Protocol (IP), which is being replaced by IPv6.

Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6)- Latest version of the Internet Protocol (IP), which is the protocol used to route data on the internet.

Internet Service Provider (ISP)- Company that provides access to the internet.

IP Address- Unique identifier for a device on a network.

Malware- Short for "malicious software," it is any software designed to harm a computer or its user.

Modem- Device that converts digital signals to analog signals and vice versa.

Multicast- Message sent to a group of devices on a network.

NAT (Network Address Translation)- Technique used to allow devices on a private network to communicate with devices on a public network.

Netmask- Value used to specify which portion of an IP address represents the network and which portion represents the host.

Network- Group of two or more devices that are connected.

Network Interface Card (NIC)- Device that connects a computer to a network.

Network as a Service (NaaS)- Form of cloud computing that delivers network infrastructure as a service.

Open system interconnection model (OSI model)- Framework for understanding how data is transmitted between two nodes on a network.

Packet- Unit of data that is sent over a network.

Peer-to-Peer Architecture- Network architecture in which each computer or process on the network can act as both a client and a server.

Platform as a Service (PaaS)- Form of cloud computing that delivers a computing platform and/or solution stack as a service.

Protocol- Set of rules that govern communication between devices on a network.

Router- Device that forwards packets between networks or between devices on the same network.

Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)- Protocol for securing data transfer over the internet.

Server- Device or software application that provides services to other devices or software applications.

Service Pack- Collection of updates and fixes for a software program.

Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP)- Protocol used to send email.

Software as a Service (SaaS)- Form of cloud computing that delivers software as a service.

Spyware- Type of malware that gathers information about a user without their knowledge.

Structured Query Language (SQL)- Standard language for accessing and manipulating databases.

Subnet- Portion of a network that is isolated from the rest of the network.

Switch- Device that connects multiple devices together on a network and forwards packets between them.

Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)- Protocol used to transfer data over a network.

Trojan Horse- Type of malware that masquerades as legitimate software in order to trick users into installing it.

Unicast- Message sent to a single destination on a network.

User Datagram Protocol (UDP)- Protocol used to transfer data over a network.

Virtual Private Network (VPN)- Technique used to create a secure connection between two or more devices over a public network.

Virtual Machine (VM)- Software program that emulates the hardware of a computer.

Voice over IP (VoIP)- Technique used to transmit voice traffic over a data network.

Wide Area Network (WAN)- Network that covers a large geographical area.

Wireless Access Point (WAP)- Device that connects wireless devices to a wired network.

Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP)- Security protocol for wireless networks.

Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA)- Security protocol for wireless networks. It's an improvement over WEP and is required for networks that use 802.11n.

Worm- Type of malware that replicates itself and spreads to other computers on a network.

Zero Configuration Networking- Set of technologies that automatically configures IP addresses and other network settings without user intervention.

Zombie- Computer that has been infected with a virus and can be controlled by a remote attacker.

Zone- Logical grouping of network resources. Zones can be used to segment a network for security or performance reasons.

Zone Transfer- Process of copying DNS zone information from one DNS server to another.
